---
title: RS Movement Test v0.2.6 released.
date: 2022-05-22
categories: updates
author: Meta

blogCover: /imgs/blogCover2.png
---

[form]: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScA4RbOksjNZIYnA7PUc7pPUyyUQ3o-lx2vZQxZRdLjx501GQ/viewform?usp=pp_url&entry.2020600864=v0.2.6t+(Movement)

Hi! I know I wasn't here for like half a year, but i promise i was working hard. Aside from a gamejam game and a couple of passion projects such as blender stuff and graphic design work I can finally release a second version of the movement test. I didn't make patch notes for the first one, because it's a completely different game to what was in the previous builds. That said, it's only made for people to test the new movement I made. More on that later.

### Download

Download the test build here: [https://metapikachu.itch.io/robosamurai](https://metapikachu.itch.io/robosamurai)

You can rant/let me know about anything related here: [Google Forms][form]

This game is a "Dynamic Swordfighter" for 90% of the time spent developing i was focusing on combat stuff. That is: abilities, attacks, special attacks, enemies and their AI etc. Back in August 2021 I started learning about rigidbody and momentum based controllers. I knew that speed and movement will be a big thing for the game as the genre has "dynamic" in the name. Back then i loved playing games like Apex Legends, Titanfall and Mirror's Edge which all have momentum based controllers. Some time went by and i finally got to work. It took me around a month to write the movement from scratch as I wanted to have full control over it. 2 months ago I released it to the public and got around 5 people (I know, incredible numbers) to gametest and give me their thoughts.

For archiving reasons I decided to write down all the new stuff and balances that had been added to the movement test build according to what I've heard from game testers.

<h1>Contents</h1>

- [*Patch Notes*](#patch-notes)
    - [Movement](#movement)
    - [Jumping / WallJumping](#jumping--walljumping)
    - [Animation](#animation)
    - [Polish/Bugs](#polishbugs)

# *Patch Notes*

### Movement
- Walking speed has been increased: 2 -> 4
- Running speed has been increased: 8 -> 9
- Default camera sensitivity has been increased: 20 -> 50
- Default camera base FOV has been increased: 75 -> 85
- The player can now face towards a wall when on ground.
- Hold Shift to run has been changed to CapsLock toggle walk in order to spare the player's pinky fingers.
- Ground acceleration decreased: 40 -> 30

### Jumping / WallJumping
- Nix will now reach towards walls with his legs as a way to indicate when the WallJump can be performed.
- WallJump upwards force has been increased: 10 -> 13
- Jump upwards force has been increased: 9 -> 12
- DoubleJump upwards force has been increased: 10 -> 14
  - *i have noticed with the help of some gametesters that the double jump felt not powerful at all. Only thing it did before was slow the player down from falling, now it is an actual upward force applied that actually pushed the player upwards*
- Coyote Time has been added.

### Animation 
- Replaced the Jump In Place animation with a better, fixed one
- Replaced the back flip DoubleJump animation to a more adequate and true to the final game one that looks like a JetPack jump rather than a flip.

### Polish/Bugs
- Step dust particles
- Fixed a bug where the player would teleport to the ledge they were climbing after resetting the level with the R key
  - You can no longer reset the level when climbing a ledge
- Fixed a bug correlated with the way WallJump force was being applied that made the player stay in place after performing it. This bug may still occur, but very rarely as I don't know the root cause of the issue aside from the force applying weirdly.
- New UI Controller and new pages have been added:
  - Main Menu (Redone)
  - Settings Page
  - Support Page
- You can now view what level action icons mean by going to the References tab on the Actions menu (accessed by pressing V when in a level)
- New speed effects have been added that change depending on the player's speed *(can be toggled off in the settings menu)*
- You can now change base FOV of the camera on the settings page.
- Camera FOV now smoothly changes based on the player's velocity to make the player feel the speed even more *(can be toggled off in the settings menu)*

Like I said, please playtest this build and let me know what you think.

[Feedback form][form]


If you have feedback or anything business related please let me know on the itch page and I'll give you my discord. I'm still working on an official email.

Until then,
Meta out.
